Thousands of people start learning how
to make AI videos every day, but over
90% of them give up in the first week.
And that's not because the creation
itself is hard. It's because they get
lost in what AI model to use, what
workflow to follow, or they simply get
overwhelmed by so many tutorials. That's
why in this video, I'm going to walk you
step-by-step through the essentials you
need. So, by the end of it, you can go
from a complete beginner to someone who
can actually create impressive videos in
less than 15 minutes. But first, before
we actually get into the practical
steps, you need to understand something
because this is what decides whether
your next generations will look
realistic or not. Most people spend 90%
of their time inside AI video generators
testing prompts and regenerating over
and over again. And while that might
seem like the right approach, it's
actually the biggest mistake you can
make. Whenever you create a video with
AI, you have two options: text to video
and image to video. Text to video is
pretty straightforward. You write a
prompt and the AI creates an image based
on your description, but there's a
problem with that. The AI has to figure
out the character, the lighting, the
environment, and every other aspect on
its own. And what happens almost every
time is that it misses details. So,
let's just test it with this prompt. And
this is the video that we get back.
As you can see, it looks pretty decent
and most of the details are there, but
it didn't really add everything I asked
for in the prompt. And this is not even
the biggest problem. Here's what I get
if I regenerate the same video with the
exact same prompt as before.
The character looks completely different
and it looks like a different rooftop.
And this happens because every time you
hit generate, the AI starts completely
from scratch. It doesn't remember
anything from your last iteration. So,
if you want to create a video with
multiple scenes that doesn't look like
random shots stitched together, it's
impossible to use the text to video
method. And that's exactly why the most
experienced AI creators avoid this
method all the time. They always go with
the second one, image to video. With
image to video, you're showing the AI
exactly what the first frame of your
video needs to look like before it even
starts generating. The model takes that
image as a visual reference and builds
on top of it. The AI doesn't have to
guess what your character looks like, or
what the lighting should be, because
you've already locked them in. So, if I
take this image and add a simple prompt,
I get this result.
It kept all the details in place, but on
top of that, here's the video if I
modify the prompt.
The character and all the other aspects
look exactly the same in every
generation, but not everyone who uses
this method gets realistic results. Most
people generate average images, and then
expect to get a cinematic video from
them, which is simply impossible. If you
want to get realistic results, you need
to make high-quality images. So, the
real question is, how do you actually
create them? Well, the answer comes down
to five specific principles, and the
reason thousands of beginners generate
low-quality images isn't that they're
using the wrong tool. It's that they
don't actually know what makes an image
cinematic in the first place. Now, after
studying real filmmakers from Hollywood,
I found out that they all share the
exact same five principles when creating
a movie. And the good news is that once
you understand what these are, you can
start applying them directly inside your
AI videos, and create better results
than most people. The first principle is
lighting, and this is what makes the
difference between an image that looks
like a normal photo, and one that feels
alive. And that's because good lighting
that has direction and creates shadows
will make it seem like it's in 3D
instead of 2D. Just take a look at this
image with poor lighting, and now with
this one. The difference is massive,
even though we only changed the
lighting. Filmmakers know how important
this is, and that's the reason they hire
multiple teams, and spend hundreds of
thousands of dollars on lighting
equipment alone. Now, the second
principle is depth, and this goes
hand-in-hand with the lighting principle
for creating that 3D feeling. If you
want to avoid creating flat images, you
just need to add something slightly out
of focus in the foreground, your subject
sharp in the midground, and then the
environment in the background. This will
make viewers see it as a real
three-dimensional space, but this
doesn't have to be really complicated.
Even a small detail, like a blurred
railing at the edge of the frame, is
enough to create that effect. Now, the
third principle is composition. And this
is where you actually place your subject
inside the frame. Beginners who have no
real background in filmmaking think that
the subject should always be in the
center, but that's actually a mistake
very few people talk about. What
professional filmmakers do instead is
apply the rule of thirds. Imagine your
frame divided into nine equal sections
by two horizontal and two vertical
lines, and then just place your subject
on one of those vertical lines slightly
off center. It might seem really
complicated, and it actually is for real
movies, but when it comes to AI videos,
you can adjust this in just a few clicks
like I'm going to show you now. For this
principle, you can also take advantage
of leading lines from roads, corridors,
or walls that naturally pull the
viewer's attention toward the subject.
Now, the fourth principle is emotion,
and this is actually the secret behind
any blockbuster movie. All the cinematic
scenes and characters are important, but
what really makes them special are the
intense emotions behind them. So, before
you even start generating your images,
you always need to think what should the
viewer feel? Cuz once you know the
emotion you're going for, everything
else falls into place. You'll know
exactly what lighting to use, the
composition, and all the scenes. But if
you skip it, you'll end up making all
those technical decisions randomly, and
the final result will feel low quality.
So, if you want to take full advantage
of this principle, you need to also use
the fifth principle, which is color.
Every color you see has a feeling behind
it, and that's why real filmmakers study
them so much. Warm tones like reds,
oranges, and golds [music]
naturally push toward intensity,
tension, and passion. Cool tones like
blues, teals, and grays push toward
calm, distance, and isolation. So, once
you know the emotion you want to create,
you basically already know which
direction your colors should go. And now
that you are aware of this, you'll
easily avoid mixing warm and cool tones.
These five principles are what every
experienced creator applies in his AI
projects, but just knowing them is not
enough. You still need to know how to
practically use them. To show you how
that works, I'm going to go over to
Higgsfield. If you've never heard of
Higgsfield before, it's one of the most
popular all-in-one platforms that gives
you full access to all the image and
video AI models. So, instead of having
five different subscriptions and
switching between tabs, with Higgsfield,
you get all that under one roof. But
what really differentiates it from other
similar platforms are its original AI
features. One of them is Cinema Studio
2.5, which is the only workflow I
recommend beginners use. It has
everything you need from creating images
and videos to even voices at the highest
quality out there. And the only reason
this is possible is because Cinema
Studio is only trained on cinematic
movies. So, even if you give it a simple
prompt, the results are way better than
most AI models. And on top of that, the
overall interface is so easy to
understand that even a complete beginner
can use it. That's why I'm going to use
it for this video. By the time you're
watching this, Higgsfield will have
already dropped Cinema Studio 3.0. It's
their latest AI film tool focused on
more realistic optical physics, better
scene understanding from references,
built-in audio, and an overall jump in
cinematic video quality. Everything I'm
about to show you still applies. It's
just that Cinema Studio 3.0 will take
these same techniques and push the
results even further. So, if you want to
follow along with the tutorial, I'll
leave a link to Higgsfield in the
description where you can sign up. Once
you're inside the platform, this is the
homepage you'll see. Now, I'll go to
Cinema Studio 2.5 and select the image
section because I want to generate the
location for my video. For this, I'll
select the location option and then
create the prompt. For the scene
location, I'll choose a rooftop over a
war-torn city. For the emotions inside,
I'll go with tension and urgency. To
emphasize that, I'll use warm tones like
orange and red in the sunset light that
creates dramatic shadows. Here's the
exact prompt I'll use for it. And here's
the result we get back. Even from a
fairly simple prompt, the result already
looks like it was made by a real
production team. And you can definitely
feel the intensity inside. So, I'll save
it as a new location. This allows me to
see exactly how the environment will
look before animating anything, which is
crucial for not wasting my credits. Now,
let's go and create the character. But
you need to be really careful here
because if you're not doing this right,
your character might look different with
every generation even though you're
using the image to video method. And
honestly, this is the biggest trap when
it comes to generating AI videos. I see
too many people falling into it. So, let
me show you the proven way to generate
consistent characters throughout
generations. Just a few months ago, this
required a lot of effort to set up. But
now you don't even need to write a
single prompt. And all All that is
thanks to Cinema Studio. So, once you're
inside, go to the character section.
Here you can build your character
through eight specific categories, the
same way a casting director would think
about building a role for a film. Genre
is first, and this matters more than it
looks. There are 14 options, like
action, drama, and horror. And the
reason this category is so important is
that the same prompt generates
completely different results for
thriller than for comedy. I'll go with
war. The budget is set in millions of
dollars, and this sets the overall
visual polish. A higher budget means a
more refined, sleeker aesthetic. So,
I'll pick 250 million. Then we have the
era. This is the time period, which
shapes the clothing, the grooming, and
the overall style. And because I want
something modern for my video, I'll
choose the 2020s. For the archetype,
I'll set my character to be the hero.
But these were just the first options.
Let's now get into the physical
appearance of the character. Inside the
identity section, you can choose the
gender, which will be female for my
example. Race, I'll pick Asian. And then
the age. My character is a female
soldier. So, for the physical appearance
build, it'll be athletic. Now, these are
most of the options you'll get with a
normal AI generator. But when it comes
to Cinema Studio, they actually took
that extra step and added all the human
details you can think of. You have
height, eye color, hairstyle, and
texture. And for her physical details,
I'll go with brown eyes, brown hair with
a fringe, and a wavy texture. There are
a few more options you can choose from,
like the outfit or even adding tattoos.
So, I'll add that, too. Now, I'll click
generate. She looks exactly like I was
expecting. Look at the textures on her.
It's nowhere close to that regular AI
plastic texture you get with most
generators. Deep field really nailed
every detail, and that's because it was
trained on cinematic only data. And what
this means in practice is that you can
use this exact character across all your
different scenes, and it'll always look
like the same person, no matter what
location, lighting, or mood you choose.
Now, go back to the image section and
select scenes. This is where you combine
the character and the location we just
created into a single shot. And it's
also where all five principles come
together for the first time. So, select
your character and your location, and
then set the resolution to 4K to get the
best quality possible. Then for
composition, I'll place her on the left
third of the frame with the ruined city
creating leading lines behind her. For
depth, I'll add a piece of debris out of
focus in the foreground, her in the
midground, and let the skyline stay in
the background. Now, I'll hit generate,
and here's what we get back. Even as a
still image, you can already feel the
tension on her face. But, I want to go
even further and make it more realistic.
For this, Cinema Studio gives you a full
set of editing tools to refine it. One
of the most important ones is color
grading. At the top of the panel, you'll
find presets like natural, split tone,
and cinematic. These are the fastest
ways to shift the overall mood of the
image in one click. So, pick the one
that matches your emotion. Once you have
a direction you like, you can go into
the color settings for more control.
This is where you adjust the
temperature, hue, saturation, and
contrast all in one place. Temperature
lets you push the entire image warmer or
cooler. So, if your scene is supposed to
feel cold and distant, but the
generation came out too warm, this is
where you fix it. Next is bloom, which
adds a soft glow around the bright areas
of the frame. Then, there's halation,
which simulates the red glow that forms
around highlights on real film. You can
also layer in film grain for that
cinematic texture. And here's the
result. The difference between the
before and after is not huge, but these
small details are what make people watch
it or not. But, if you don't want
something extremely detailed and
specific, the color presets cover
everything you might need. However,
there are a few simple settings that
make a massive difference. Everyone
should know what these are and how to
use them. One is relight. This lets you
change the lighting direction after the
image is already generated. So, if the
scene looks right, but the light is
hitting from the wrong angle, you don't
need to regenerate the whole image
hoping you don't lose important details.
Knowing these features alone makes you
an intermediate AI user. But, there's
one more step you need to take. How to
turn your image into a high-quality
video. This is pretty straightforward,
but you still need to be really careful
here, because if you get this wrong,
you'll burn through credits and still
end up with unusable results. One of the
biggest mistakes you can make here is to
write a huge prompt trying to explain
all the motions, emotions, and actions
you want to have inside. And that's
because the video model gets confused
and the output is not going to be the
one you expect. And honestly, this is
the part where I see people give up
because they think the tool isn't good
enough when the real problem is their
approach. In reality, it's way easier
than you think. The video section inside
Cinema Studio gives you dozens of
pre-built options to handle all of that
for you. Instead of spending time trying
to describe everything in one prompt,
you just write the action you want in
plain English and set the rest from the
controls. So, let's go to the video
section and select single shot. First,
upload your reference image as the
starting frame and add your character as
well as the location. Now, before you
write anything, you can already set most
of what you need from the pre-built
options. The first is the emotion
setting for your character. You can
choose from options like hope, anger,
and even fear. The model uses this to
adjust the character's expression and
body language throughout the entire
scene. For this shot, I want her to feel
tense but focused, so I'll go with this.
Then there's genre, which tells the
model the overall energy and pacing of
the video. And just like with the
principles, this one decision shapes how
everything else moves and feels. For a
military rooftop scene at golden hour,
I'll go with action. Next is camera
movement, and here Cinema Studio gives
you a full range of pre-built options
from slow pushes and dollies to even a
360 roll. For this shot, I want a slow
cinematic push toward the character as
she scans the horizon. Then, for the
motion prompt, you just describe the
action in plain English. And the last
setting before generating is the speed
ramp, which controls how the movement
feels emotionally. You can leave it on
auto, but if you want full control, you
can put it on slow for more tension or
make it faster for urgency and action.
I'll keep it slow here because I want
the viewer to feel that tension for a
couple of seconds before the next scene
comes. And here's what we get back.
The motion is exactly what I wanted. You
can instantly feel the tense atmosphere,
and the character already looks under a
lot of tension. The overall scene's body
language already carries the emotion we
set before we even wrote a single word.
But with the single shot mode, you can
only generate one scene. It's good for
testing quick ideas, but if you want to
create a longer project, you need to
stitch all the scenes together in real
editing software, which can quickly get
complicated if you don't use it
properly. So, that's why Cinema Studio
has the multi shot manual mode. This has
all the same features as the previous
one, but here you can actually create a
video with multiple shots in one go.
Now, you can build up to six shots in a
single generation, each with its own
prompt, motion, and duration. And even
though the workflow is now way more
powerful, Higgs Field keeps it very
simple to use. You can add, adjust, and
even move around these shots with only a
mouse click, which would have taken
multiple complex prompts just a few
months ago. So, I'll create three
different scenes for this example. For
the first one, I'll paste in this
prompt. And for the camera movement,
I'll go with the zoom in and then slow
down the speed ramp so it builds up more
tension inside the scene. For the
duration, I'll go with 4 seconds. Now,
in the next scene, she'll raise her
rifle, so I'll paste in this prompt. For
this, I'll make everything more alert by
adding a zoom in as she tracks the
target and changing the speed ramp. Now,
for scene three, I'll keep it at just 3
seconds and paste in this prompt. This
is where the impact happens. So, I'll
try the hero mode for the speed. Now,
this is exactly the moment where
everything we built so far comes
together. So, let's click generate and
see what happens.
The character stays consistent across
all three scenes. The pace follows the
exact emotional arc we planned, and
everything looks cinematic. It's
actually insane what you can build in
just a few minutes as a complete
beginner. Now, at this point, you
already have a full cinematic video. But
if you want to take this even further,
there's one more thing you can do. And
this is where one of the newest AI
models comes in. I'm talking about C
Dance 2.0, which is finally available
inside Higgs Field. Now, what makes this
different is the way it works with
references. Instead of starting from an
image, you can actually take an entire
video and use it as a reference to
create a new one. And what it does
behind the scenes is that it rebuilds
your video in a completely new way while
keeping the same structure and motion.
This means you can test different
styles, change the mood, or even push
the realism further without losing the
consistency you already have. So, here's
the new video I got from C Dance just by
referencing a video and using this
prompt.
Take a look at how it compares side by
side with the original clip. The results
are absolutely insane. In my opinion,
this is the best AI feature I've seen
this month and you can access it right
now inside Higgsfield. So, if you want
to start building your own AI videos
without getting overwhelmed, go sign up
for Higgsfield with the link in the
description below. Thanks for watching
and I'll see you in the next one.